# Do Yourself a Favour

People often ask me for favours, and I make a point whenever I can to indulge these requests. Often they cost me very little, perhaps an introduction or dispensing some advice, so I do them. Why? I occasionally need a favours also, so why should another grant me that courtesy if it is known that I will never reciprocate? Even if one never requires a favour from another, one is sure to benefit from the good will accumulated by helping others.

How someone behaves when you ask a favour of them reveals a lot about your relationship. Do they without hesitation help you out with your request, or do they not respond to your email, or maybe they exhibit painfully awkward body language and make feeble excuses when in person? Whatever the outcome you will be made acutely aware whether the relationship holds any value to you or if it's purely superficial. Such information is useful signal when determining which relationships need strengthening (or in some instances discarding), and which relationships deserve prioritisation because the connection is strong.

When a favour seems trivial, you never know exactly how important it is to another. I *rarely* ask for favours, when I do it's because I have tried to do something myself but I have failed. When I ask a favour, it's because I *need* help. Like everyone, there have been times when I have asked for favours and been denied by people that could have easily helped me if they wanted to. My usual reaction is think to myself that this is fine, but not to expect an open ear from me when the boot is on the other foot. However on the rarer occasion I have desperately needed help with something, and have been denied by someone who wouldn't help because they couldn't be bothered or lacked the testicular fortitude to jump on the phone and it has left me absolutely livid. I wouldn't describe myself as a vindictive person, but in the heat of the moment I have quietly vowed to later egregiously fuck over the naysayer in the future as payback. Of course later on I calm down and harbour less extreme feelings, but it can't help but cross my mind when asked for a favour. You could be asked by someone who has been trying to achieve what they're asking for help with on their own for months. The act of asking for a favour might be their last resort. They might be incredibly frustrated with doors slamming shut in their face at every turn. If I can help and I don't, is this person going to wage an insane vendetta against me? 

Imagine being asked a favour from and subsequently shutting down the next Ron Conway. Despite your lack of interest in helping him/her with something seemingly trivial to you but hugely important to them, they go on to be wildly successful, influential, and powerful and you will always be remembered as the person that could have helped, but didn't. Well fuck. You simply never know who you are blowing out, be a good person and endeavour to help wherever you can.

Of course everything I have said is contingent on these requests being reasonable in nature. I do not expect to be asked to work for free as a favour, equally as I would not expect an investor to give me a $10MM convertible note, with no cap and no discount to start a new company also as a favour. The simple fact is being helpful to others is a good thing. I have found more opportunities come my way from relationships born from merely being helpful. Amongst other things, loyalty, doing favours, and sometimes even putting yourself on the line for others galvanise relationships. You don't build a platinum Rolodex by being a pussy.

